Trace analytics update (#7362)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _observing-your-data/trace/ta-dashboards.md

---
layout: default
title: Trace Analytics plugin for OpenSearch Dashboards
parent: Trace Analytics
nav_order: 50
redirect_from:
  - /observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/
  - /monitoring-plugins/trace/ta-dashboards/
---

# Trace Analytics plugin for OpenSearch Dashboards

The Trace Analytics plugin offers at-a-glance visibility into application performance based on [OpenTelemetry (OTel)](https://opentelemetry.io/) protocol data that standardizes instrumentation for collecting telemetry data from cloud-native software. 

## Installing the plugin

See [Standalone OpenSearch Dashboards plugin install]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-dashboards/plugins/) for guidance about installing the Trace Analytics plugin.

## Setting up the OpenTelemetry Demo

> Set up the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenSearch, which simulates a distributed application generating real-time telemetry data. This demo provides a practical environment to explore the Trace Analytics plugin's features before implementation.

Reviewer: First sentence: "The OpenSearch OpenTelemetry Demo simulates..."?

> Set up the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenSearch, which simulates a distributed application generating real-time telemetry data. This demo provides a practical environment in which to explore the Trace Analytics plugin's features before implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenSearch simulates a distributed application generating real-time telemetry data, providing you with a practical environment in which to explore features available with the Trace Analytics plugin before implementing it in your environment.
```

> To get started, set up the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenSearch, which simulates a distributed application generating real-time telemetry data. This demo provides a practical environment to explore the Trace Analytics plugin's features before implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set up the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenSearch, which simulates a distributed application generating real-time telemetry data. This demo provides a practical environment to explore the Trace Analytics plugin's features before implementation.
```

> **Step 1: Set up OpenTelemetry Demo**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 1: Set up the OpenTelemetry Demo**
```

>   - Clone the [OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo) repository: `git clone https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo`.

Reviewer: It looks like there should be a "the" preceding "OpenSearch".

Author: I dont think so...

Reviewer 2: The repo name is "OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenSearch."

  - Follow the [Getting Started](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo/blob/main/tutorial/GettingStarted.md) instructions to deploy the demo application using Docker, which runs multiple microservices generating telemetry data.

**Step 2: Ingest telemetry data**

>   - Configure the OTel collectors to send telemetry data (traces, metrics, logs) to your OpenSearch cluster, using the [pre-existing setup](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo/tree/main/src/otelcollector).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Configure the OTel collectors to send telemetry data (traces, metrics, logs) to your OpenSearch cluster, using the [preexisting setup](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo/tree/main/src/otelcollector).
```

>   - Confirm that [Data Prepper](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo/tree/main/src/dataprepper) is set up to process the incoming data, handle trace analytics and service map pipelines, submit data to required indexes, and perform pre-aggregated calculations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Confirm that [Data Prepper](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo/tree/main/src/dataprepper) is set up to process the incoming data, handle trace analytics and service map pipelines, submit data to required indexes, and perform preaggregated calculations.
```

**Step 3: Explore Trace Analytics in OpenSearch Dashboards**

The **Trace Analytics** application includes two options: **Services** and **Traces**:

  - **Services** lists all services in the application, plus an interactive map that shows how the various services connect to each other. In contrast to the dashboard (which helps identify problems by operation), the **Service map** helps you identify problems by service based on error rates and latency. To access this option, go to **Trace Analytics** > **Services**.

>   - **Traces** groups traces together by HTTP method and path so that you can see the average latency, error rate, and trends associated with a particular operation. For a more focused view, try filtering by trace group name. To acces this option, go to **Trace Analytics** > **Traces**. From the **Trace Groups** panel you can drill down on the traces that make up a trace group. From the **Traces** panel you can drill down on individual traces for a detailed summary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Traces** groups traces together by HTTP method and path so that you can see the average latency, error rate, and trends associated with a particular operation. For a more focused view, try filtering by trace group name. To access this option, go to **Trace Analytics** > **Traces**. From the **Trace Groups** panel, you can drill down on the traces that comprise a trace group. From the **Traces** panel you can drill down on individual traces for a detailed summary.
```

>   - **Traces** groups traces together by HTTP method and path so that you can see the average latency, error rate, and trends associated with a particular operation. For a more focused view, try filtering by trace group name. To acces this option, go to **Trace Analytics** > **Traces**. From the **Trace Groups** panel you can drill down on the traces that make up a trace group. From the **Traces** panel you can drill down on individual traces for a detailed summary.

Reviewer: In the last two sentences, let's replace the phrasal verb "drill down on" with what we precisely mean. Maybe something like "review"?

 **Step 4: Perform correlation analysis**

>   - Select **Services correlation** to reveal connections between various telemetry signals. This allows you to navigate from the logical service level to the associated metrics and logs for that specific service.

Reviewer: "reveal" => "display"?

Author: can u plz replace that ?

Reviewer 2: @YANG-DB I'll handle addressing the editorial comments.

>   - Select **Services correlation** to reveal connections between various telemetry signals. This allows you to navigate from the logical service level to the associated metrics and logs for that specific service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Select **Services correlation** to display connections between various telemetry signals. This allows you to navigate from the logical service level to the associated metrics and logs for that specific service.
```

---

## Schema dependencies and assumptions

> The plugin requires [Data Prepper]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/) to process and visualize OTel data and relies on the following Data Prepper pipelines for OTel correlations and service map calculations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin requires you to use [Data Prepper]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/) to process and visualize OTel data and relies on the following Data Prepper pipelines for OTel correlations and service map calculations:
```

- [Trace analytics pipeline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/common-use-cases/trace-analytics/)
- [Service map pipeline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/service-map-stateful/)

### Standardized telemetry data

> The plugin requires telemetry data to follow the OTel schema conventions, including the structure and naming of spans, traces, and metrics as specified by OTel, and to be implemented using [Simple Schema for Observability (SS4O)]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/ss4o/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin requires telemetry data to follow the OTel schema conventions, including the structure and naming of spans, traces, and metrics as specified by OTel, and to be implemented using the [Simple Schema for Observability]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/ss4o/).
```

### Service names and dependency map

For accurate service mapping and correlation analysis, adhere to the following guidelines:

- Service names must be unique and used consistently across application components.

> - The `serviceName` field is populated using the Data Prepper pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `serviceName` field must be populated using the Data Prepper pipeline.
```

- Services must be ingested with predefined upstream and downstream dependencies to construct accurate service maps and understand service relationships.

### Trace and span IDs

Traces and spans must have consistently generated and maintained unique identifiers across distributed systems to enable end-to-end tracing and accurate performance insights.

### RED metrics adherence

> The plugin expects metrics data to include rate, error, and duration (RED) indicators for each service, either pre-aggregated using the Data Prepper pipeline or calculated dynamically based on spans. This allows for effective computation and display of key performance indicators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin expects metric data to include rate, error, and duration (RED) indicators for each service, either preaggregated using the Data Prepper pipeline or calculated dynamically based on spans. This allows for effective computation and display of key performance indicators.
```

> The plugin expects metrics data to include rate, error, and duration (RED) indicators for each service, either pre-aggregated using the Data Prepper pipeline or calculated dynamically based on spans. This allows for effective computation and display of key performance indicators.

Reviewer: Last sentence: "This allows you to effectively compute and display key performance indicators"?

### Correlation fields

> Certain fields, such as `serviceName`, must be present for correlation analysis. These fields enable the plugin to link related telemetry data and provide a holistic view of service interactions and dependencies.

Reviewer: "for correlation analysis" => "to perform correlation analysis"?

> Certain fields, such as `serviceName`, must be present for correlation analysis. These fields enable the plugin to link related telemetry data and provide a holistic view of service interactions and dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Certain fields, such as `serviceName`, must be present to perform correlation analysis. These fields enable the plugin to link related telemetry data and provide a holistic view of service interactions and dependencies.
```

### Correlation indexes

> Navigating from the service dialog to its corresponding traces or logs requires the existence of correlating fields and that the target indexes (for example, logs) follow the naming conventions, as described in [Simple Schema for Observability](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/ss4o/).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigating from the service dialog to its corresponding traces or logs requires the existence of correlating fields and that the target indexes (for example, logs) follow the specified naming conventions, as described at [Simple Schema for Observability](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/ss4o/).  
```

---

## Trace analytics with OTel protocol analytics
Introduced 2.15
{: .label .label-purple }

> Trace analytics with OTel protocol analytics in OpenSearch Dashboards provides comprehensive insights into distributed systems. OpenSearch Dashboards gives you a capabilities to correlate signals, identify relationships, and uncover root causes of issues in a single interface. You can analyze and visualize the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trace analytics with OTel protocol analytics provide comprehensive insights into distributed systems. You can visualize and analyze the following:
```

> Trace analytics with OTel protocol analytics in OpenSearch Dashboards provides comprehensive insights into distributed systems. OpenSearch Dashboards gives you a capabilities to correlate signals, identify relationships, and uncover root causes of issues in a single interface. You can analyze and visualize the following:

Reviewer: Nit: Can we include the noun after "the following"?

Reviewer 2: "assets"

> - [Service](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/resource/#service): The components of a distributed application. These components are significant logical terms used to measure and monitor the application's building blocks to validate the system's health.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Service](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/resource/#service): The components of a distributed application. These components are significant logical terms used to measure and monitor the application's building blocks in order to validate the system's health.
```

> - [Traces](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/): The end-to-end visibility into requests' journeys across services, offering insights into latency and performance issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Traces](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/): A visual representation of a request's path across services into requests' journeys across services, offering insights into latency and performance issues.
```

> - [Traces](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/): The end-to-end visibility into requests' journeys across services, offering insights into latency and performance issues.

Reviewer: "The end-to-end visibility into requests' journeys across services" => "A visual representation of a request's path across services"?

Author: can u plz suggest this ?

Reviewer 2: Done.

> - [RED metrics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/api/): The metrics for service health and performance, measured as requests per second (rate), failed requests (errors), and request processing time (duration). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [RED metrics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/api/): Metrics for service health and performance, measured as requests per second (rate), failed requests (errors), and request processing time (duration). 
```

### Trace analytics visualizations

> Services visualizations, such as a table or map, help you logically analyze service behavior and accuracy. The following visualizations can help you identify anomalies and errors:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Services** visualizations, such as a table or map, help you logically analyze service behavior and accuracy. The following visualizations can help you identify anomalies and errors:
```

- **Services table**

>   - A RED indicator, along with connected upstream and downstream services and other actions, is indicated in each table column. The following image is an example **Services** table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A RED indicator, along with connected upstream and downstream services and other actions, is indicated in each table column. An example **Services** table is shown in the following image.
```

  ![Services table]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/services-table.png)
    

>   - General-purpose filter selection is used for any field or filter composition. The following image shows this filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - General-purpose filter selection is used for field or filter composition. The following image shows this filter.
```

  ![Services filter selection]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/services-filter-selection.png)

  - The **Services** throughput tooltip provides an at-a-glance overview of a service's incoming request trend for the past 24 hours. The following image shows an example tooltip.

  ![Services throughput tooltip ]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/service-throughput-tooltip.png)
  
  - The **Services** correlation dialog window provides an at-a-glance overview of a service's details, including its 24-hour throughput trend. You can use these details to analyze correlated logs or traces by filtering based on the `serviceName` field. The following image shows this window.
 
  ![Services correlation dialog window]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/single-service-correlation-dialog.png)

>   - The **Services** RED metrics dialog window provides an at-a-glance overview of a service's RED metrics indicators, including 24-hour error, duration, and throughput rate. The following image shows this window.

Reviewer: "rate" => "rates"?

Author: It should be singular

 
  ![Services RED metrics for duration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/single-service-RED-metrics.png)

>   - The **Span details** dialog window provides a trace's details. You can use this information to further analyze a trace's elements, such as attributes and associated logs. The following image shows this window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The **Span details** dialog window provides the details of a trace. You can use this information to further analyze a trace's elements, such as attributes and associated logs. The following image shows this window.
```

  ![Services Span details dialog window]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/span-details-fly-out.png)

- **Service map**

>   - The **Service map** displays nodes, each representing a service. Node color indicates the RED indicator severity for that service and its dependencies. The following image shows a map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The **Service map** displays nodes, each representing a service. The node color indicates the RED indicator severity for that service and its dependencies. The following image shows a map.
```

  ![Services map tooltip]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/service-details-tooltip.png)
  

>   - Selecting a node opens a detailed dialog window for that service. This interactive map visualizes service interconnections, helping identify problems by service, unlike dashboards that identify issues by operation. Sort by error rate or latency to pinpoint potential problem areas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You can select a node to open a detailed dialog window for that service. This interactive map visualizes service interconnections, helping identify problems by service, unlike dashboards that identify issues by operation. You can sort by error rate or latency to pinpoint potential problem areas.
```

>   - Selecting a node opens a detailed dialog window for that service. This interactive map visualizes service interconnections, helping identify problems by service, unlike dashboards that identify issues by operation. Sort by error rate or latency to pinpoint potential problem areas.

Reviewer: At the end of the first sentence, should "service" be "node" or something like "for its associated service"?

>   - In the **Service map** dialog window, nodes represent connected downstream services dependent on the selected service. Node color indicates the RED indicator severity for that service and its downstream dependencies. The following image shows this dialog window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In the **Service map** dialog window, nodes represent connected downstream services dependent on the selected service. The node color indicates the RED indicator severity for that service and its downstream dependencies. The following image shows this dialog window.
```

  
  ![Service map dialog window]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/single-service-fly-out.png)

- **Trace groups**

>   - Traces are grouped by their HTTP API name, allowing clustering based on their business functional unit. Traces are grouped by HTTP method and path, displaying the average latency, error rate, and trends associated with a particular operation. You can filter by trace group name. The following image shows the **Trace Groups** window.

Reviewer: Is "business functional unit" the best wording for what we mean?

Author: I think so - any suggestions ?

Reviewer 2: Business functional unit refers to the logical grouping of functionality based on the applications purpose. For example, HTTP APIs differ for the application, such as bank application, e-commerce application, or health system application.

  ![Trace Groups window]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/trace-group-RED-metrics.png)

>   - In the **Trace Groups** window, you can filter by group name and other filters. You can also analyze associated traces. To drill down on the traces that make up a group, select the number of traces in the right column, then choose an individual trace for a detailed summary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In the **Trace Groups** window, you can filter by group name and other filters. You can also analyze associated traces. To drill down on the traces that comprise a group, select the number of traces in the right-hand column and then choose an individual trace to see a detailed summary.
```

>   - In the **Trace Groups** window, you can filter by group name and other filters. You can also analyze associated traces. To drill down on the traces that make up a group, select the number of traces in the right column, then choose an individual trace for a detailed summary.

Reviewer: At the end of the first sentence, "filters" should be the noun that also describes "group name". Same comment re: "drill down on": "review/examine/inspect"?

---
layout: default
title: Trace Analytics plugin for OpenSearch Dashboards
parent: Trace Analytics
nav_order: 50
redirect_from:
  - /observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/
  - /monitoring-plugins/trace/ta-dashboards/
---

# Trace Analytics plugin for OpenSearch Dashboards

The Trace Analytics plugin offers at-a-glance visibility into application performance based on [OpenTelemetry (OTel)](https://opentelemetry.io/) protocol data that standardizes instrumentation for collecting telemetry data from cloud-native software. 

## Installing the plugin

See [Standalone OpenSearch Dashboards plugin install]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-dashboards/plugins/) for instructions on how to install the Trace Analytics plugin.

## Setting up the OpenTelemetry Demo

> The OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenSearch simulates a distributed application generating real-time telemetry data, providing you with a practical environment in which to explore features available with the Trace Analytics plugin before implementing it in your environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo) simulates a distributed application generating real-time telemetry data, providing you with a practical environment in which to explore features available with the Trace Analytics plugin before implementing it in your environment.
```

**Step 2: Ingest telemetry data**

  - Configure the OTel collectors to send telemetry data (traces, metrics, logs) to your OpenSearch cluster, using the [preexisting setup](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo/tree/main/src/otelcollector).
  - Confirm that [Data Prepper](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo/tree/main/src/dataprepper) is set up to process the incoming data, handle trace analytics and service map pipelines, submit data to required indexes, and perform preaggregated calculations.

**Step 3: Explore Trace Analytics in OpenSearch Dashboards**

The **Trace Analytics** application includes two options: **Services** and **Traces**:

  - **Services** lists all services in the application, plus an interactive map that shows how the various services connect to each other. In contrast to the dashboard (which helps identify problems by operation), the **Service map** helps you identify problems by service based on error rates and latency. To access this option, go to **Trace Analytics** > **Services**.

>   - **Traces** groups traces together by HTTP method and path so that you can see the average latency, error rate, and trends associated with a particular operation. For a more focused view, try filtering by trace group name. To access this option, go to **Trace Analytics** > **Traces**. From the **Trace Groups** panel, you can drill down on the traces that comprise a trace group. From the **Traces** panel you can drill down on individual traces for a detailed summary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Traces** groups traces together by HTTP method and path so that you can see the average latency, error rate, and trends associated with a particular operation. For a more focused view, try filtering by trace group name. To access this option, go to **Trace Analytics** > **Traces**. From the **Trace Groups** panel, you can review the traces that comprise a trace group. From the **Traces** panel you can analyze individual traces for a detailed summary.
```

- [Service map pipeline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/service-map-stateful/)

### Standardized telemetry data

The plugin requires telemetry data to follow the OTel schema conventions, including the structure and naming of spans, traces, and metrics as specified by OTel, and to be implemented using the [Simple Schema for Observability]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/ss4o/).

### Service names and dependency map

For accurate service mapping and correlation analysis, adhere to the following guidelines:

- Service names must be unique and used consistently across application components.
- The `serviceName` field must be populated using the Data Prepper pipeline.
- Services must be ingested with predefined upstream and downstream dependencies to construct accurate service maps and understand service relationships.

### Trace and span IDs

Traces and spans must have consistently generated and maintained unique identifiers across distributed systems to enable end-to-end tracing and accurate performance insights.

### RED metrics adherence

> The plugin expects metric data to include rate, error, and duration (RED) indicators for each service, either preaggregated using the Data Prepper pipeline or calculated dynamically based on spans. This allows for effective computation and display of key performance indicators.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The plugin expects metric data to include rate, error, and duration (RED) indicators for each service, either preaggregated using the Data Prepper pipeline or calculated dynamically based on spans. This allows you to effectively compute and display key performance indicators.
```

### Correlation fields

Certain fields, such as `serviceName`, must be present to perform correlation analysis. These fields enable the plugin to link related telemetry data and provide a holistic view of service interactions and dependencies.

### Correlation indexes

Navigating from the service dialog to its corresponding traces or logs requires the existence of correlating fields and that the target indexes (for example, logs) follow the specified naming conventions, as described at [Simple Schema for Observability](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/ss4o/).  

---

## Trace analytics with OTel protocol analytics
Introduced 2.15
{: .label .label-purple }

> Trace analytics with OTel protocol analytics provide comprehensive insights into distributed systems. You can visualize and analyze the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Trace analytics with OTel protocol analytics provide comprehensive insights into distributed systems. You can visualize and analyze the following assets:
```

 
  ![Services correlation dialog window]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/single-service-correlation-dialog.png)

  - The **Services** RED metrics dialog window provides an at-a-glance overview of a service's RED metrics indicators, including 24-hour error, duration, and throughput rate. The following image shows this window.
 
  ![Services RED metrics for duration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/single-service-RED-metrics.png)

  - The **Span details** dialog window provides the details of a trace. You can use this information to further analyze a trace's elements, such as attributes and associated logs. The following image shows this window.

  ![Services Span details dialog window]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/span-details-fly-out.png)

- **Service map**
  - The **Service map** displays nodes, each representing a service. The node color indicates the RED indicator severity for that service and its dependencies. The following image shows a map.

  ![Services map tooltip]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/service-details-tooltip.png)
  

>   - You can select a node to open a detailed dialog window for that service. This interactive map visualizes service interconnections, helping identify problems by service, unlike dashboards that identify issues by operation. You can sort by error rate or latency to pinpoint potential problem areas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - You can select a node to open a detailed dialog window for its associated service. This interactive map visualizes service interconnections, helping identify problems by service, unlike dashboards that identify issues by operation. You can sort by error rate or latency to pinpoint potential problem areas.
```

---
layout: default
title: Trace Analytics plugin for OpenSearch Dashboards
parent: Trace Analytics
nav_order: 50
redirect_from:
  - /observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/
  - /monitoring-plugins/trace/ta-dashboards/
---

# Trace Analytics plugin for OpenSearch Dashboards

The Trace Analytics plugin offers at-a-glance visibility into application performance based on [OpenTelemetry (OTel)](https://opentelemetry.io/) protocol data that standardizes instrumentation for collecting telemetry data from cloud-native software. 

## Installing the plugin

See [Standalone OpenSearch Dashboards plugin install]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-dashboards/plugins/) for instructions on how to install the Trace Analytics plugin.

## Setting up the OpenTelemetry Demo

The OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenSearch simulates a distributed application generating real-time telemetry data, providing you with a practical environment in which to explore features available with the Trace Analytics plugin before implementing it in your environment.

> To set up the demo, follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---

# Trace Analytics OpenSearch Dashboards plugin
Introduced 2.15
{: .label .label-purple }

> OpenSearch Observability Trace Analytics has introduced an improved user experience centered around OpenTelemetry (OTEL) protocol analytics, providing comprehensive insights into distributed systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch Observability Trace Analytics offers an improved user experience (UX) with OpenTelemetry (OTel) protocol analytics, providing comprehensive distributed systems insights. The improved UX enables you to correlate signals, aiding in identifying relationships and root causes of issues.
```

> OpenTelemetry ([OTEL](https://opentelemetry.io/)) is an open-source observability framework for cloud-native software that provides standardized instrumentation to collect telemetry data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[OTel](https://opentelemetry.io/), an open-source observability framework, offers standardized instrumentation for collecting telemetry data from cloud-native software.
```

> In this improved trace-analytics experience, users can analyze and visualize key signals such as services, traces, and RED (Rate, Error, Duration) metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Trace analytics capabilities

This improved trace-analytics experience enables you to analyze and visualize services, traces, and rate, error and duration (RED) metrics.
```

> - [Services](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/resource/#service) represent the different components of a distributed application, they are a significant logical term which is used to measure and monitor the application's building blocks to validate the health of the entire system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Services](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/resource/#service) represent the different components of a distributed application. They are a significant logical term used to measure and monitor the application's building blocks to validate the system's health.
```

> - [Traces](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/) follow the end-to-end journey of requests as they travel through these services, offering deep insights into latency and performance issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Traces](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/) provide end-to-end visibility into requests' journeys across services, offering insights into latency and performance issues.
```

- [RED metrics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/api/) help monitor the health and performance of services by focusing on three critical areas: rate (requests per second), errors (number of failed requests), and duration (time taken to process requests). 

Additionally, we've added a new UX flyout allowing for correlation analysis, enabling users to identify relationships between different signals and understand the root causes of issues more effectively.

> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

# Trace Analytics OpenSearch Dashboards plugin

The Trace Analytics plugin offers at-a-glance visibility into application performance based on OpenTelemetry protocol data.

> Introduced 2.15

Reviewer 3: Should be kept as the original version IMO (Introduced in OpenSearch 1.0). We just updated the existing plugin in 2.15

Reviewer 2: Doc is reformatted, so this issue is resolved.

- [RED metrics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/api/) RED metrics monitor service health and performance by focusing on requests per second (rate), failed requests (errors), and request processing time (duration). 

The Trace Analytics shows multiple service-visualizations (table and map) - which allow a logical analysis of the service's behavior and correctness. 

The following visualizations represent various ways that will assist the user to quickly identify anomalies and errors

1) In the **Services table** each column shows one of the RED indicators (Requests, Errors, Duration ) in addition to the connected up/down stream services and other actions
![Services Table]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/services-table.png)

1.2) The Service table allows filtering the shown services using a general purpose filter selection which supports any field to use as a filter or a filter composition. 
![Services Filter selection]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/services-filter-selection.png)

> 1.3) The Service throughput tooltip shows a service's throughput in a glans to allow quick and simple analysis of the amount of incoming requests during the past 24 hours

Reviewer 3: minor. should be `glance`

Reviewer 2: Doc is rewritten, so this feedback is resolved.

# Trace Analytics OpenSearch Dashboards plugin

> The Trace Analytics plugin offers at-a-glance visibility into application performance based on [OpenTelemetry (OTel)](https://opentelemetry.io/) protocol data. OTel, an open-source observability framework, offers standardized instrumentation for collecting telemetry data from cloud-native software.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Trace Analytics plugin offers at-a-glance visibility into application performance based on [OpenTelemetry (OTel)](https://opentelemetry.io/) protocol data. OTel, an open-source observability framework, offers standardized instrumentation for collecting telemetry data from cloud-native software.

An [OTel demo](#otel-demo) is provided at the end of this documentation.
```

### Trace analytics visualizations

Trace analytics provides multiple service visualizations (table and map) for logically analyzing service behavior and correctness. The following visualizations assist you in quickly identifying anomalies and errors:

- **Services table**
  - Each column shows one of the RED indicators, along with connected upstream/downstream services and other actions. An example is shown in the following image.

  ![Services Table]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/services-table.png)
    
  - Filtering is supported using a general-purpose filter selection for any field or filter composition. An example is shown in the following image.

  ![Services Filter selection]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/services-filter-selection.png)

  - The Service Throughput tooltip provides a quick glance at a service's incoming request trend over the past 24 hours. An example is shown in the following image.

  ![Services throughput tooltip ]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/service-throughput-tooltip.png)
  

>   - The Service Correlation dialog displays an overview of the selected service, including its 24-hour throughput trend, and allows users to deep dive into correlated logs or traces using the serviceName field. An example is shown in the following image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The Service Correlation dialog displays an overview of the selected service, including its 24-hour throughput trend, and allows users to deep dive into correlated logs or traces using the `serviceName` field. An example is shown in the following image.
```

# Trace Analytics OpenSearch Dashboards plugin

The Trace Analytics plugin offers at-a-glance visibility into application performance based on [OpenTelemetry (OTel)](https://opentelemetry.io/) protocol data. OTel, an open-source observability framework, offers standardized instrumentation for collecting telemetry data from cloud-native software.

An [OTel demo](#otel-demo) is provided at the end of this documentation.

> 

Reviewer 2: @DB-YANG Should the user be linked to the demo landing page instead (https://github.com/opensearch-project/opentelemetry-demo/blob/main/tutorial/DemoLandingPage.md)?

- [Traces](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/): Providing end-to-end visibility into requests' journeys across services, offering insights into latency and performance issues.
- [RED metrics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/api/): Monitoring service health and performance by focusing on requests per second (rate), failed requests (errors), and request processing time (duration). 

### Trace analytics visualizations

Trace analytics provides multiple service visualizations (table and map) for logically analyzing service behavior and correctness. The following visualizations assist you in quickly identifying anomalies and errors:

- **Services table**
  - Each column shows one of the RED indicators, along with connected upstream/downstream services and other actions. An example is shown in the following image.

  ![Services Table]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/trace-analytics/services-table.png)

>     

Reviewer 2: @YANG-DB Are RED indicators shown on this image?

Certain fields, such as `serviceName`, must be present for correlation analysis. These fields enable the plugin to link related telemetry data and provide a holistic view of service interactions and dependencies.

> ### Correlation Indices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Correlation indexes
```

> Navigating from the service dialog into its corresponding traces or logs requires that (in addition to the existence of the correlating fields) the targets indices (logs for example) must follow the [Observability naming convention](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/ss4o/)  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigating from the service dialog to its corresponding traces or logs requires the existence of correlating fields and that the target indices (for example, logs) follow the [Observability naming convention](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/ss4o/).  
```
